<revisionlist>
  <revision rev="1" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>67830ce5b6de1e019add384b66a561c9</srcmd5>
    <version>0.2.0+g24</version>
    <time>1675458299</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>I want to add river in openSUSE:Factory. 

Fix specfile to not let river own `/usr/share/pkgconfig`</comment>
    <requestid>1062647</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="2" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>60d2b24592684fa5b0162d7b251cc71d</srcmd5>
    <version>0.2.4</version>
    <time>1676302853</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to version 0.2.4:
  * build: bump version to 0.2.4
  * Seat: guard setFocusRaw() usage while locked
  * docs: remove repology badge from readme
  * docs: fix typos in riverctl man page
  * session-lock: fix assertion failure on hot-plug while locked
  * wlr-output-management: apply adaptive sync state
  * build: bump version to 0.2.4-dev
  * build: bump version to 0.2.3
  * idle-inhibit: fix use-after-free
  * session-lock: properly handle disabled outputs
  * View: fix pointer comparison in notifyTitle()
  * Cursor: fix incorrect lock manager state assertion
  * command/layout: fix a memory leak
  * Seat: rework Xwayland Override Redirect focus
  * Seat: keep parent Xwayland view of a focused OR surface activated
  * deps: update zig-wayland to fix build on aarch64
  * build: bump version to 0.2.3-dev
  * build: bump version to 0.2.2
  * flags: further cleanup after Zig 0.10
  * deps: update to Zig 0.10
  * build: bump version to 0.2.2-dev
  * build: bump version to 0.2.1
  * render: fix rounding for fractional scaling
  * session-lock: fix assertion failure on abnormal client behavior
  * session-lock: fix assertion failure due to race
  * session-lock: wait for present before locking
  * rivertile: fix code to disallow 0 main count
  * render: premultiply alpha for user-provided colors
  * completions: add keyboard-layout
  * ci: Use meson setup command
  * river: fix bug in snap down / right
  * build: bump version to 0.2.1-dev
- Fix group name of river-devel as &quot;Development/Libraries/Other&quot;
</comment>
    <requestid>1064745</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="3" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>0a6d90b9d562658b153da9f22b4b7ded</srcmd5>
    <version>0.2.4+g30</version>
    <time>1678634692</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>Automatic submission by obs-autosubmit</comment>
    <requestid>1070962</requestid>
  </revision>
</revisionlist>
