atheros:	Provides:       ath3k-firmware
atheros:	Obsoletes:      ath3k-firmware
brcm:		Provides:       bcm43xx-firmware:/lib/firmware/brcm/brcmfmac43430-sdio.bin
chelsio:	Provides:       cxgb3-firmware
chelsio:	Obsoletes:      cxgb3-firmware
iwlwifi:	Provides:       iwl1000-ucode
iwlwifi:	Obsoletes:      iwl1000-ucode
iwlwifi:	Provides:       iwl3945-ucode
iwlwifi:	Obsoletes:      iwl3945-ucode
iwlwifi:	Provides:       iwl4965-ucode
iwlwifi:	Obsoletes:      iwl4965-ucode
iwlwifi:	Provides:       iwl5000-ucode
iwlwifi:	Obsoletes:      iwl5000-ucode
iwlwifi:	Provides:       iwl5150-ucode
iwlwifi:	Obsoletes:      iwl5150-ucode
iwlwifi:	Provides:       iwl100-ucode
iwlwifi:	Obsoletes:      iwl100-ucode
iwlwifi:	Provides:       iwl6000-ucode
iwlwifi:	Obsoletes:      iwl6000-ucode
iwlwifi:	Provides:       iwl6050-ucode
iwlwifi:	Obsoletes:      iwl6050-ucode
iwlwifi:	Provides:       iwl6000g2-ucode
iwlwifi:	Obsoletes:      iwl6000g2-ucode
mediatek:       Provides:       ralink-firmware
mediatek:       Obsoletes:      ralink-firmware
qlogic:         Provides:       qlogic-firmware
qlogic:         Obsoletes:      qlogic-firmware
