<revisionlist>
  <revision rev="1" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>938e539597cb7e07daa8ab4780306176</srcmd5>
    <version>5.0.1</version>
    <time>1539013444</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>Initial packaging of Pagure for openSUSE with fixed descriptions per original review</comment>
    <requestid>639576</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="2" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>b4107b2d50f63ba6c362253f7797cd4e</srcmd5>
    <version>5.1.1</version>
    <time>1539251744</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Invert Conflicts to Requires OpenSSH &gt;= 7.4
- Update to 5.1.1
  + Fix adding and removing ssh keys in the user's profile
- Update to 5.1
  + Multiple fixes to the UI to address visual quirks and glitches
  + Initial implementation of HTTP(S) push support
  + Rework how SSH keys are stored in the database
  + Multiple changes and fixes around the ACL checker
  + Adding 'list-groups' function to pagure-admin
  + Add a new API endpoint to retrieve the list of files changed in a PR
- Add Conflicts for OpenSSH &lt; 7.4 due to SSH key handling rework
- Re-wrap previous changelog entry for readability</comment>
    <requestid>640846</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="3" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>69518f5ae435d4560df7aebd83e21776</srcmd5>
    <version>5.1.3</version>
    <time>1539589125</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.1.3
  + Don't sync up ssh keys if there are already some
  + Do not notify twice when pushing commits to an open PR
  + Update git-multimail to fix it for Python 3
- Update to 5.1.2
  + Make the sshkey migration more flexible from &lt; 5.1
  + Fix the update date information on the pull-request page
  + Fix detecting if the user is a committer via a group
  + Fix writing user's ssh keys on disk
  + tweak colors of the activity graph
  + cache oidc user data
</comment>
    <requestid>641329</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="4" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>35fa0cc635bef0c911105c791037a28c</srcmd5>
    <version>5.1.4</version>
    <time>1544817263</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.1.4
  + Fix the alembic migration creating the hook_mirror table
  + Close the DB session in one place for all hooks
  + Add more logging to the pagure_logcom service
  + Configure SMTP info for git_multimail
  + Use the PR UID previously read from environment
- Backport fix from master to add compatibility with Markdown 3.0+
  + Patch: 0001-Port-pagure-to-markdown-3.0-while-remaining-backward.patch
- Backport fix from master to properly skip legacy hooks
  + Patch: 0002-Bypass-old-hooks-rather-than-using-non-existing-syml.patch
</comment>
    <requestid>657847</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="5" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>71e08969af7c62a9c5dee48d94e41ea0</srcmd5>
    <version>5.2</version>
    <time>1548064511</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment></comment>
    <requestid>666143</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="6" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>198fad209755df0af0b9f0a1f06bb23f</srcmd5>
    <version>5.3</version>
    <time>1551025228</time>
    <user>coolo</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.3
  + Add support for AMQP via fedora-messaging
  + Improve filtering and searching through issues and PRs
  + Add support for forcing highlight types based on file extensions
  + Fix naming rules for labels/tags
  + Fix support for repoSpanner Git storage backend
  + CVE-2019-7628: Do not leak partial API keys in key expiration emails (boo#1124762)
- Drop patches that are part of this release
  + 0001-Allow-using-Pagure-with-python-redis-3.0.0.patch
  + 0002-Fix-Markdown-usage-to-work-with-Markdown-3.0.patch
</comment>
    <requestid>678250</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="7" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>bbe4973892227b87717b175b565b3e90</srcmd5>
    <version>5.4</version>
    <time>1554115096</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.4
  + Allow by default the ACL &quot;pull_request_create&quot; on project-less API token
  + Implement Pagure Git Auth
  + Add a new API endpoint allowing to update an existing PR
  + If the user doesn't have a valid ssh key inform but let them log in
  + Fix various UI issues
  + Add a button to take/drop a pull-request
  + Add a new API endpoint to assign pull-request to someone
  + Allow dots and plus signs in project names
  + Fix seeing releases when the reference provided returned a commit
  + Include the PR tags in their JSON representation
  + Ensure that forking does not run the hook
  + Deprecate fedmsg for fedora-messaging
- Backport fix for pagure-ev issues in Python 3
  + Patch: 0001-pagure-ev-python-3-compatibility.patch
- Add patch to allow SQLAlchemy 1.3.0+ with Pagure
  + Patch: 0501-Revert-Add-a-upper-limit-to-sqlalchemy.patch
- Update the service list to enable and start in README.SUSE
</comment>
    <requestid>689885</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="8" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>a6e72d34fda11e02989add55ba442315</srcmd5>
    <version>5.5</version>
    <time>1554833966</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.5
  + Add support for !owner to the API listing projects
  + Make sure that TemporaryClone.push also pushes tags
  + Various UI improvements
  + Allow blocking an user on a project
  + Replace calls to pygit2.clone_repository by calls to git clone directly
  + Make fork more performant by using 'git push --mirror'
  + Use the user's default email when rebasing
- Drop patch that is part of this release
  + 0001-pagure-ev-python-3-compatibility.patch
- Backport fix for pull mirroring service
  + 0001-Couple-of-fixes-for-the-mirroring-in-feature.patch
</comment>
    <requestid>692603</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="9" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>c7ec3722344995fb56cd0a68b3168b81</srcmd5>
    <version>5.7.4</version>
    <time>1565695271</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.7.4
  + Add more administrative functions to pagure_admin
  + Add CSP headers support and a mechanism to customize them
  + Do not allow rebase via the API if the PR does not allow it
  + Allow project-less API token to retrieve issues via the API
  + Improve the support for spec file highlighting
- Drop patch that is part of this release
  + 0001-Couple-of-fixes-for-the-mirroring-in-feature.patch</comment>
    <requestid>722326</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="10" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>03f1510d7b50f88ec1e6f5de4a22221a</srcmd5>
    <version>5.8</version>
    <time>1574015001</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.8
  + Enable the ctrl-enter keys to submit forms on tickets and PRs
  + Fix spelling errors on documentation
  + Fix renewing url on invalid token error message
  + Various fixes to the srcfpo theme
  + disable smooth scrolling on initial highlight &amp; scroll process
  + Accept a with_commits parameter on the branches api to resolve the HEAD commits
  + Various fixes to the PR view
  + Add support for arrow &gt;= 0.15
  + Select full text on git|ssh url input boxes when they get focus
  + Send notification when a branch is created
  + Add revision along with tag/branch creation/deletion
  + Add asciidoc syntax override
  + Fix git blame on unborn HEAD or non-master default branch repos
  + Fix the logic to rebase PRs
  + Fix setting one's default email address
  + Send oldrev as old_commit for git.receive event
  + Add a set-default-branch action to pagure-admin
  + Fix rendering badges on the PR list page
  + Tweak when we show the merge and the rebase buttons
  + Fix the logic around interacting with read-only databases in hooks
  + Fix .diff and .patch generation for empty commits
  + Fix url on the invalid token error message
  + Fix typo on the pull request merge error message
  + Allow cross-project API token to open pull-request
  + Allow updating PRs via the API using cross-project tokens
  + Fix the logic to make the merge button appear on pull-request</comment>
    <requestid>749089</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="11" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>e069e81094189216c885537475ef0fff</srcmd5>
    <version>5.8.1</version>
    <time>1575373360</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.8.1
  + Fix the link to the container namespace in srcfpo
  + Fix checking if the user is a committer of the repo the PR originates from
  + Fix showing the origin of the PR when it originates from the same project
  + Do not hard-code UTF-8 when showing a file</comment>
    <requestid>753050</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="12" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>ff91337b71689964e10b4152d4de888a</srcmd5>
    <version>5.9.0</version>
    <time>1585176609</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.9.0
  + Add API to manage plugins (ie: git hooks)
  + Fix querying mdapi from within the srcfpo theme 
  + Various fixes for the srcfpo theme
  + Multiple fixes and improvements to the API endpoints to retrieve the tags
    used in a project
  + Add new API endpoints to manipulate tags in projects
  + Add a new API endpoint to edit/update an existing issue/ticket
  + Add a new page to see a file's history in git (linked from the file's view page
    and the blame page)
  + Only consider the 6 most recently active branch in the drop-down to create
    new PR
  + Fix the view_commit endpoint when the identifier provided is a git tag
  + Add an endpoint to renew user API token
  + Include a link to where the token can be renewed in the email about API
    token nearing expiration
  + Allow users to set their own expiration date on API token (up to 2 years)
  + Fix the /groups API endpoint and order the output by group name
  + Add a new API endpoint to retrieve a project's webhook token
  + Expose related_prs on issue API
  + Fix the regenerate-repo actions
  + Provide some feedback to the user when changing monitoring worked
  + Hide the SSH clone URL if the user is not in one of the group with ssh
    access
  + Order pull requests based on updated_on column when we want to order based
    on last updated time
  + Fix taking into account the blacklisted patterns
  + Rework/fix the API documentation page
  + Allow deploy keys to commit to the doc git repository of a project
  + Increase a lot the logging when someone asks for access to a git repo</comment>
    <requestid>788347</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="13" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>8d63038ae73247272838878dcc96b5cb</srcmd5>
    <version>5.9.1</version>
    <time>1586112850</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.9.1
  + Add a missing div tag that broke the user's settings page
  + Do not block when waiting for subprocess to finish
  + Fix git blame when the identifier provided is a blob
  + Fix view_commits when the identified provided is a blob
  + When viewing file's history, use the default branch if needed</comment>
    <requestid>791384</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="14" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>b16240deac6a976b8f91e87b6069e218</srcmd5>
    <version>5.10.0</version>
    <time>1589892268</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.10.0
  + Allow viewing issues via the API using project-less API token
  + Various improvements to the srcfpo theme
  + Make pagure work with recent sqlalchemy versions (&gt;= 1.3.0)
  + Add a new API endpoint to retrieve detailed stats about the issues
  + Improve the graphs displayed in the stats tab of each projects
  + Add a new graph tracking the number of open issues throughout the year
  + Improve loading tickets from git
  + Support pygit2 &gt;= 1.1.0
  + Add missing endpoints to the API documentation
  + Add support for wtforms &gt;= 2.3
    - Add dependency on email_validator in such case
  + Fix sorting users by their username when using python3
  + Correct the API documentation for updating the watchers of a project
  + Ensure the name of the headers are always of the correct type 
    (especially when using python3)
  + Ensure aclchecker and keyhelper can work with APP_URL having a trailing slash
  + Add a new git auth backend which can manage the .ssh/authorized_keys file
    directly
  + Update information about supported Git auth backends
  + Add support for arrow &gt;= 0.15.6
  + Fix getting the milter running with python3
  + Fix mirroring project hosted remotely
  + Add url_path property to class User (and thus in the API)
  + Improve email text for new user registration
  + Set the USER environment variable when pushing over http
  + Add support for git push via http using basic auth relying on API token
  + If pagure is set up for local auth, allow git push via https to use it
  + Add an example nginx configuration file for pagure
  + Create two subpackages in the pagure for the apache and nginx configuration
    files
  + Add some documentation on how git push over http works in pagure
  + Make pagure compatible with the latest version of flake8
  + Add PAGURE_PLUGINS_CONFIG setting in pagure configuration file 
- Refresh quick start instructions for new configuration options
- Drop unneeded patch
  + Patch: 0501-Revert-Add-a-upper-limit-to-sqlalchemy.patch
- Refresh default configuration patch
  + Patch: pagure-5.0-default-example-cfg.patch
- Backport fix from upstream to fix stats page
  + Patch: 0001-Make-the-stats-page-use-the-new-stats-API-endpoint.patch
- Add missing step to start pagure web services for nginx setup in quickstart
- Fix directory mode for ssh directory to fix conflict with gitolite</comment>
    <requestid>806975</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="15" vrev="2">
    <srcmd5>99c65f72fe1eceecc8373aaed42c9dd7</srcmd5>
    <version>5.10.0</version>
    <time>1590247664</time>
    <user>maxlin_factory</user>
    <comment>- Fix typo in quickstart on ssh directory mode 
- Backport support for STARTTLS support for SMTP servers
  + Patch: 0001-Add-support-for-smtp-server-requiring-starttls-to-wo.patch</comment>
    <requestid>807849</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="16" vrev="3">
    <srcmd5>bb3dafb62548559f3344a3e0d917c5e8</srcmd5>
    <version>5.10.0</version>
    <time>1592840745</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Backport fixes for STARTTLS support
  + Patch: 0002-starttls-support-via-SMTP_STARTTLS-provide-additiona.patch
  + Patch: 0001-Do-not-assume-there-is-a-SMTP_STARTTLS-configuration.patch
- Backport fix for docs repo access grant
  + Patch: 0001-Fix-repotype-spelling.patch
- Backport fix for visual bug on API docs formatting
  + Patch: 0001-api-fix-apidoc-format-on-api_view_issues_history_det.patch
- Backport fix to changing pull mirror settings
  + Patch: 0001-Allow-editing-the-URL-a-project-is-mirrored-from.patch
- Backport fix to add descriptions to API scopes
  + Patch: 0001-Show-the-ACL-name-in-addition-to-the-description-whe.patch
- Backport fix to make heatmap UI functional again
  + Patch: 0001-Bring-back-JS-library-used-for-the-heatmap.patch
- Backport fix for handling headers
  + Patch: 0001-Ensure-the-title-name-of-the-headers-are-strings.patch
- Backport fix for burndown graph title
  + Patch: 0001-Fix-the-title-of-the-graph-showing-the-evolution-of-.patch
- Backport fix for permissions on authorized_keys file
  + Patch: 0001-Make-sure-authorized_keys-file-has-mode-600.patch
- Add patch to use whitenoise for rendering static assets
  + Patch: 0101-Use-WhiteNoise-to-serve-static-assets-for-the-Pagure.patch
- Refresh default configuration patch
  + Patch: pagure-5.0-default-example-cfg.patch</comment>
    <requestid>816227</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="17" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>a84be04eb93e1ae26f05d6651d66b5d1</srcmd5>
    <version>5.11.2</version>
    <time>1596565505</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.11.2
  + Allow having a dedicated logging configuration for the git hooks
  + Increase logging to the pagure_auth logger
  + Make work pagure-admin ensure-project-hooks when the target link exists but is
    broken
  + Change the project icon when the project is mirrored from an external source
  + Allow a theme or a blueprint to inject custom buttons in the navigation bar.
  + Add API endpoint to get a pull-request comment
  + Omit breaking original comment format in reply on pull-requests
  + Let the milter announce when it reject an email based on its address
  + Don't Let the milter process the email we send.
  + Add a collaborator level to projects
  + Allow setting the default git branch when creating projects via the API
  + Allow creating mirrored project from the API
  + Add the possibility to set the default branch at project creation
  + Add API endpoint to set the default git branch and expose it in an existing
    endpoint
  + Adjust the example configuration for logging to a file
  + Allow project-less API token with the &quot;modify_project&quot; ACL to update watchers
  + Add a new API endpoint to retrieve a commit's metadata/info
  + Add a new API endpoint allowing to delete a project
  + Add support for customizing the new issue page
  + Introducing the boards feature
  + Add an API endpoint to view the content of a git repo
  + Port pagure's markdown extension to the new API
  + Multiple small fixes for the vagrant-based development environment
  + Use WhiteNoise to serve static assets for the Pagure web
  + Fix the title of the graph showing the evolution of the number of open tickets
    on a project
  + Do not assume there is a SMTP_STARTTLS configuration key set
  + Bring back JS library used for the heatmap
  + Show the ACL name in addition to the description when creating API tokens
  + Allow editing the URL a project is mirrored from
  + Add comments to the mirror service files for clarifying their purpose.
  + Add a dedicated logger for everything that is auth related
  + api: fix apidoc format on api_view_issues_history_detailed_stats Fixes web
    api doc view template issues
  + doc: Add a page documenting known Pagure instances
  + starttls support via SMTP_STARTTLS: provide additional documentation.
  + Add support for smtp server requiring starttls to work
  + Make the stats page use the new stats API endpoint
- Drop patches included in this release
  + Patch: 0001-Make-the-stats-page-use-the-new-stats-API-endpoint.patch
  + Patch: 0001-Add-support-for-smtp-server-requiring-starttls-to-wo.patch
  + Patch: 0002-starttls-support-via-SMTP_STARTTLS-provide-additiona.patch
  + Patch: 0001-Do-not-assume-there-is-a-SMTP_STARTTLS-configuration.patch
  + Patch: 0001-Fix-repotype-spelling.patch
  + Patch: 0001-api-fix-apidoc-format-on-api_view_issues_history_det.patch
  + Patch: 0001-Allow-editing-the-URL-a-project-is-mirrored-from.patch
  + Patch: 0001-Show-the-ACL-name-in-addition-to-the-description-whe.patch
  + Patch: 0001-Bring-back-JS-library-used-for-the-heatmap.patch
  + Patch: 0001-Ensure-the-title-name-of-the-headers-are-strings.patch
  + Patch: 0001-Fix-the-title-of-the-graph-showing-the-evolution-of-.patch
  + Patch: 0001-Make-sure-authorized_keys-file-has-mode-600.patch
  + Patch: 0101-Use-WhiteNoise-to-serve-static-assets-for-the-Pagure.patch</comment>
    <requestid>824337</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="18" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>1fb2142a2f63cfa254c5cdf980edb0f9</srcmd5>
    <version>5.11.3</version>
    <time>1598885510</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.11.3
  + Fix the model around the boards so it works with mariadb/mysql
  + Add new endpoints to the API documentation</comment>
    <requestid>830601</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="19" vrev="2">
    <srcmd5>c193bf620c239915d488ebbdc54bc0e5</srcmd5>
    <version>5.11.3</version>
    <time>1601044534</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Backport various fixes from upstream
  + Patch: 0001-Display-real-line-numbers-on-pull-request-s-diff-vie.patch
  + Patch: 0002-Show-the-assignee-s-avatar-on-the-board.patch
  + Patch: 0003-Allow-setting-a-status-as-closing-even-if-the-projec.patch
  + Patch: 0004-Include-the-assignee-in-the-list-of-people-notified-.patch
  + Patch: 0005-Introduce-the-collaborator_project_groups-mapping.patch
  + Patch: 0006-When-a-file-a-detected-as-a-binary-file-return-the-r.patch
  + Patch: 0007-Remove-fenced-code-block-when-checking-mention.patch
  + Patch: 0008-Add-support-for-using-cchardet-to-detect-files-encod.patch
  + Patch: 0009-Add-support-for-disabling-user-registration.patch
- Remove mandatory dependency on systemd to ease containerization</comment>
    <requestid>837239</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="20" vrev="3">
    <srcmd5>d6895f33b29b772bfb1f3723d6c94cbe</srcmd5>
    <version>5.11.3</version>
    <time>1607017376</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Add proposed fix for setting project options via API
  + Patch: 0001-api-project-Fix-handling-of-false.patch</comment>
    <requestid>852786</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="21" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>39aa99e6b9e83f863fc6d3f89f68aab7</srcmd5>
    <version>5.12</version>
    <time>1610051113</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.12
  + Display real line numbers on pull request's diff view
  + Show the assignee's avatar on the board
  + Allow setting a status as closing even if the project has no close_status
  + Include the assignee in the list of people notified on a ticket/PR
  + Add orphaning reason on the dist-git theme
  + Adjust the way we generate humanized dates so we provide the humanized date
    as well as the actual date when hovering over
  + When a file a detected as a binary file, return the raw file
  + Allow using the modifyacl API endpoint to remove groups from a project
  + Add a note that repo_from* argument are mandatory in some situations when
    opening a Pull-Request from the API
  + Increase the list of running pagure instances in the documentation
  + Remove fenced code block when checking mention
  + Add support for using cchardet to detect files' encoding
  + Show the default branch in the project overview page
  + Send appropriate SMTP status codes and error messages in the milter.
  + Report an error if a message ID isn't recognized by the milter.
  + Add support for disabling user registration
  + Add a way to make the stats view on more than one year (if you know how to)
  + Encode the data passed onto the mail hook so it is of bytes type
  + Reverse out of order instructions for new repos
  + Split the list of branches into two lists active/inactive in dist-git
  + Rework the &quot;My PR&quot; page so it does not pull so many info at once
  + Include the date of the last mirroring process in the logs
  + Forward the username when updating the pull-request
  + Add pagination to group API
  + When returning the commits flags in the API, returned them by update date
  + Change the PR flag API endpoints to use commit flags
  + Only show the subscribers list on demand
  + Improve the message shown when a new mirrored project is created
  + When editing the issue's description sent the html of it to the SSE server
  + Add an update-acls action to pagure-admin
  + Add support for AAA system sending SSH keys encoded in base64
  + Allow deleting the master branch when it is not the default branch
  + Allow people with a fork to have a working drop-down for opening new PRs
  + Fix handling &quot;false&quot; when editing project's options via the API
  + Ensure a fork project has the same default branch as its parent
  + Allow to specify a default branch for all projects hosted on an instance
  + Add a notification for when a group is removed from a project
  + When checking if messages were sent via a rebase, do not run the git hooks
  + Make the API endpoint to update project's options accept JSON
  + Add a full_url to the JSON representation of our main objects
  + Ensure the author in git commit notifications follow the expected format
  + Add support for git branch aliases
  + Allow updating the target branch when editing a PR
- Drop upstreamed patches
  + Patch: 0001-api-project-Fix-handling-of-false.patch
  + Patch: 0001-Display-real-line-numbers-on-pull-request-s-diff-vie.patch
  + Patch: 0002-Show-the-assignee-s-avatar-on-the-board.patch
  + Patch: 0003-Allow-setting-a-status-as-closing-even-if-the-projec.patch
  + Patch: 0004-Include-the-assignee-in-the-list-of-people-notified-.patch
  + Patch: 0005-Introduce-the-collaborator_project_groups-mapping.patch
  + Patch: 0006-When-a-file-a-detected-as-a-binary-file-return-the-r.patch
  + Patch: 0007-Remove-fenced-code-block-when-checking-mention.patch
  + Patch: 0008-Add-support-for-using-cchardet-to-detect-files-encod.patch
  + Patch: 0009-Add-support-for-disabling-user-registration.patch</comment>
    <requestid>861032</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="22" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>aa53362568e0162020bb7aa9bdd76fb4</srcmd5>
    <version>5.13.1</version>
    <time>1612011390</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.13.1
  + Add the api_project_hascommit endpoint to the API doc
  + Do not return a 500 error when the OpenID provider doesn't provide an email
  + Fix bug in the default hook
  + When failing to find a git repo, log where pagure looked
  + Get the default branch of the target repo when linking for new PR
  + Add an hascommit API endpoint
  + Fixing sample input and output for alias related api
  + Add missing API endpoints related to git aliases and re-order a little
  + Add support for chardet 4.0+
  + Fix support for cchardet
  + Make the token_id column of the commit_flags table nullable</comment>
    <requestid>867751</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="23" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>f34edc7ca888c4c840faf81d2d3ffa48</srcmd5>
    <version>5.13.2</version>
    <time>1613427352</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Update to 5.13.2
  + Fix broken pagination of group API
  + Fixing the alias url in the examples
  + Pull in upstream fix for apostrophes from highlightjs-rpm-specfile
  + Improve logging when trying to interract with a git repo via http(s)</comment>
    <requestid>871310</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="24" vrev="2">
    <srcmd5>e9221683939d8fc93096849772249aed</srcmd5>
    <version>5.13.2</version>
    <time>1631913951</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment>- Drop unused dependency on nose</comment>
    <requestid>919592</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="25" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>b1e631e924d2609cfb9c6a9bfb3145ac</srcmd5>
    <version>5.13.3</version>
    <time>1651605576</time>
    <user>dimstar_suse</user>
    <comment></comment>
    <requestid>974749</requestid>
  </revision>
  <revision rev="26" vrev="1">
    <srcmd5>1c1981e1b37bb4e3f1d10d4c5925be7a</srcmd5>
    <version>5.14.1</version>
    <time>1717429402</time>
    <user>anag+factory</user>
    <comment></comment>
    <requestid>1178124</requestid>
  </revision>
</revisionlist>
