packages/h/helm-image/README.md, before:

# Kubernetes Package Manager container image

![Redistributable](https://img.shields.io/badge/Redistributable-Yes-green)


## Description

[Helm](https://helm.sh/) is a tool for managing [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) charts, which are packages of pre-configured Kubernetes resources. This container image simplifies the deployment and use of Helm by packaging it into a ready-to-use container.


## Usage

To run Helm, use the following comamand:

```ShellSession
# podman run --rm -it  registry.opensuse.org/opensuse/helm:%%helm_version%% <helm-sub-command>

podman run --rm -it registry.opensuse.org/opensuse/helm:%%helm_version%% version
```

Refer to the full list of Helm commands, flags and environment variables, in the [official Helm documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm/).

For a comprehensive guide on getting started with Helm, refer to the [official Helm tutorial](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/getting_started/).

### Connecting Helm container to the Host's Kubernetes Cluster

To interact with a Kubernetes cluster running on the host, mount the Kubernetes configuration file (`kubeconfig`) into the container (use `--net=host` flag to allow container to use host’s network):

```ShellSession
podman run --rm -it --net=host -v /path/to/kubeconfig:/root/.kube/config registry.opensuse.org/opensuse/helm:%%helm_version%%
```

## Licensing

`SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0`

This documentation and the build recipe are licensed as Apache-2.0.
The container itself contains various software components under various open source licenses listed in the associated
Software Bill of Materials (SBOM).

This image is based on [openSUSE Tumbleweed](https://get.opensuse.org/tumbleweed/).

Commit message:

Update helm-image to version 2024 / rev 12 via SR 1181705
https://build.opensuse.org/request/show/1181705
by user dancermak + anag+factory
🤖: sync package with devel:BCI:Tumbleweed from OBS

packages/h/helm-image/README.md, after:

# Kubernetes Package Manager container image

![Redistributable](https://img.shields.io/badge/Redistributable-Yes-green)


## Description

[Helm](https://helm.sh/) is a tool for managing [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) charts, which are packages of pre-configured Kubernetes resources. This container image simplifies the deployment and use of Helm by packaging it into a ready-to-use container.


## Usage

To run Helm, use the following command:

```ShellSession
$ podman run --rm -it  registry.opensuse.org/opensuse/helm:3.15 <helm-sub-command>
```

For instance, to display the Helm version, run:
```ShellSession
$ podman run --rm -it registry.opensuse.org/opensuse/helm:3.15 version --template='{{.Version}}'
v3.15
```

Refer to the full list of Helm commands, flags and environment variables, in the [official Helm documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm/).

For a comprehensive guide on getting started with Helm, refer to the [official Helm tutorial](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/getting_started/).

### Connecting Helm container to the Host's Kubernetes Cluster


To interact with a Kubernetes cluster, mount the Kubernetes configuration file (`kubeconfig`) from the container host into the container (use the `--net=host` flag to allow the container to use the host’s network):

```ShellSession
$ podman run --rm -it --net=host -v /path/to/kubeconfig:/root/.kube/config:Z registry.opensuse.org/opensuse/helm:3.15
```

## Licensing

`SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0`

This documentation and the build recipe are licensed as Apache-2.0.
The container itself contains various software components under various open source licenses listed in the associated
Software Bill of Materials (SBOM).

This image is based on [openSUSE Tumbleweed](https://get.opensuse.org/tumbleweed/).
