# Training files
#
training_albanian_SQ.txt sq
training_basque_ES.txt eu
training_bengali_BD.txt bn
training_canna_JP.txt ja
training_czechC_CS.txt cs
training_czech_CS.txt cs
training_danish_DK.txt da
training_dutch_NL.txt nl
training_english_GB.txt en
training_englishLC_GB.txt en
training_finnish_FI.txt fi
training_frenchC_FR.txt fr
training_french_FR.txt fr
training_german_DE.txt de
training_greek_GR.txt el
training_hebrew_IL.txt he
training_hiragana60_JP.txt ja
training_hiragana83_JP.txt ja
training_hungarian_HU.txt hu
training_italianC_IT.txt it
training_italian_IT.txt it
training_mongolian_MN.txt mn
training_persian_IR.txt fa
training_polish_PL.txt pl
training_portuguese_BR.txt pt
training_portugueseC_BR.txt pt
training_russian_RU.txt ru
training_spanishC_ES.txt es
training_spanish_ES.txt es
training_spyDict.txt zh
training_swahili_KE.txt sw
training_swedish_SE.txt sv
training_turkish_TR.txt tr
training_welsh_GB.txt cy

# Alphabet files
# Note: if the file mentions a training file, then the map will be done with
# the training file if possible. (This is why some files are missing from the
# list below)
#
alphabet.AfaanOromo.xml om
alphabet.Armenian.xml hy
alphabet.Assamese.xml as
alphabet.Austen.xml en
alphabet.Azerbaijani.xml az
alphabet.Belarusian.xml be
alphabet.Bulgarian.xml bg
alphabet.Esperanto.xml eo
alphabet.Estonian.xml et
alphabet.Filipino.xml tl
alphabet.Gujarati.xml gu
alphabet.Hawaiian.xml haw
alphabet.Hindi.xml hi
alphabet.Icelandic.xml is
alphabet.Igbo.xml ig
alphabet.Indonesian.xml id
alphabet.IrishGaelic.xml gd
alphabet.Kannada.xml kn
alphabet.Katakana.xml ja
alphabet.Malay.xml ms
alphabet.Malayalam.xml ml
alphabet.Marathi.xml mr
alphabet.Moldavian.xml ro
alphabet.Ndebele.xml nr
alphabet.Oriya.xml or
alphabet.Punjabi.xml pa
alphabet.Romanian.xml ro
alphabet.Sami.xml se
alphabet.ScotsGaelic.xml gd
alphabet.Sepedi.xml nso
alphabet.Sesotho.xml st
alphabet.Sinhala.xml si
alphabet.Slovak.xml sk
alphabet.Slovenian.xml sl
alphabet.Swati.xml ss
alphabet.Tajik.xml tg
alphabet.Tamil.xml ta
alphabet.Telugu.xml te
alphabet.Thai.xml th
alphabet.Thai2.xml th
alphabet.Tsonga.xml ts
alphabet.Tswana.xml tn
alphabet.Urdu.xml ur
alphabet.Vietnamese.xml vi
alphabet.Xhosa.xml xh
alphabet.Yoruba.xml yo
alphabet.Zulu.xml zu
# musical language
#alphabet.abc.xml
alphabet.adangbe.xml ada
alphabet.afrikaans.xml af
alphabet.akan.xml ak
alphabet.amharic.xml am
alphabet.arabic.xml ar
alphabet.bopomofo.xml zh
alphabet.bosnian.xml bs
alphabet.breton.xml br
alphabet.catalan.xml ca
alphabet.cherokee.xml chr
alphabet.chinese.xml zh
alphabet.chineseRuby.xml zh
alphabet.corsican.xml co
alphabet.croatian.xml hr
alphabet.czech.xml cs
alphabet.ethiopic.xml gez
alphabet.ewe.xml ee
alphabet.faroese.xml fo
alphabet.ga.xml gaa
alphabet.galician.xml gl
alphabet.georgian.xml ka
alphabet.hausa.xml ha
# international phonetic alphabet
#alphabet.ipa.xml
alphabet.kazakh.xml kk
alphabet.kirghiz.xml ky
alphabet.kirundi.xml rn
# klingon
#alphabet.klingon.xml
alphabet.korean.xml ko
alphabet.koreanNested.xml ko
alphabet.kurdish.xml ku
alphabet.lao.xml lo
alphabet.latex.xml en
alphabet.latin.xml la
alphabet.latvian.xml lv
alphabet.lithuanian.xml lt
alphabet.luxembourgish.xml lb
alphabet.macedonian.xml mk
alphabet.maltese.xml mt
alphabet.myanmar.xml my
alphabet.nepali.xml ne
alphabet.norwegian.xml no
alphabet.occitan.xml oc
# early medieval alphabet
#alphabet.ogham.xml
alphabet.pashto.xml ps
# perl language
#alphabet.perl.xml
alphabet.pinyin.xml zh
alphabet.pinyin2.xml zh
alphabet.polish.xml pl
alphabet.romansch.xml rm
# runic
#alphabet.runic.xml
alphabet.sanskrit.xml sa
alphabet.serbian.xml sr
alphabet.somali.xml so
alphabet.thaana.xml dv
alphabet.tigrinya.xml ti
alphabet.turkmen.xml tk
alphabet.ukrainian.xml uk
alphabet.uzbek.xml uz
alphabet.venda.xml ve
